# Design Requirements

>[!Note]- Availability
> <!-- Multiline -->
> * **~={green}Availability=~**: Ability to be operational and accessible when needed
> * **~={blue}Calculation=~**: Working Time / (Working Time + Down Time). Measured in nines.
> 
> **~={red}<u>Availability Tactics</u>=~**
> **~={red}Fault Detection=~**
> 1. **~={green}Ping & Echo=~**: Ping a server to get a response. See if a response is returned or delayed to determine if the system is functioning as intended.
> 2. **~={green}Heartbeat=~**: Periodically Ping
> 
> **~={red}Fault Recovery=~**
> * Redundancy } Database Replication

>[!Note]- Performance
> <!-- Multiline -->
> * **~={green}Latency=~**: Time between the stimulus and response. Time it takes for 1 request/operation to complete.
> 	* **~={blue}Calculation=~**: Response Time - Request Time
> * **~={green}Throughput=~**: The number of requests that can be processed within an interval. (i.e. **~={red}Requests=~** Per Second). For databases operations (**~={red}Queries=~** Per Second). For processing data, (i.e. **~={red}Bytes=~** Per Second).
> 	* **~={blue}Calculation=~**: Total Requests / Total Time (Seconds (or unit of choice))
> 
> **~={red}<u>Latency Tactics</u>=~**
> * CDNs, Cache, More Servers
> 
> **~={red}<u>Throughput Tactics</u>=~**
> * More Servers with a Load Balancer

>[!Note]- Reliability, Fault Tolerance, Redundancy
> <!-- Multiline -->
> * **~={green}Reliability=~**: System’s ability to consistently perform its intended function without failure over a specified period.
> 
> **~={red}<u>Reliability Tactics</u>=~**
> * Redundancy } Database Replication

# CAP Theorem (Distributed Data)

* Only applies to replicated data
* Can only choose **<font color="#f38ba8">CP</font>** or <font color="#f38ba8">AP</font>. <font color="#f38ba8">P</font> is implied

>[!Note]- What is CAP?
> <!-- Multiline -->
> * **~={green}Partition Tolerance=~**: If we have a primary and a replica database. If there is a network partition, where the primary and replica databases become disconnected, how can the writes to the primary database be written to the replica database. What should we do, do we prioritise consistency or availability?
> * **~={green}Consistency (CP)=~**: Data consistency between primary and replica database. While the system is partitioned, reading from replicas may not be up to date. Hence, lets **~={red}ban all use of replica databases=~**. We give up availability in our replica databases, and simply only use our primary database for consistency.
> * **~={green}Availability (AP) =~**: We can allow reads from our replica databases, but the data read may be stale.
> ---
> If there is not a network partition, we can either favour **~={blue}latency=~** or ~={blue}consistency=~. Either let uses read data fast that might be stale, or slowly, but isn't stale.

#flashcards/sysdesign/concepts/designreqsandcap